# Exercise 2

### The address space

1. Compile and run `aspace.c` in this directory.

2. Read the code.  You might want to [read about malloc here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_malloc.htm).

3. Based on the output, draw a sketch of the virtual address space (see page 80 of HFC).  Show the relative locations of the stack, heap, globals, constants, and code.

  ```
  ----------------------
  Stack

  var2 at 0x7ffea3444374
  ----------------------
  Heap

  p at 0x2418010
  ----------------------
  Globals

  var1 at 0x60104c
  ----------------------
  Constants

  s at 0x400714
  ----------------------
  Code

  main at 0x4005d6
  ----------------------
  ```

4. Add a second call to `malloc` and check whether the heap on your system grows up (toward larger addresses).

    When a second pointer was allocated 128 bytes in memory, the address of the second pointer was higher than the first one, indicating that the heap is growing towards higher addresses.

5. Add a function that prints the address of a local variable, and check whether the stack grows down.  

    The address of local variable printed from the new function is less than the address of `var2`, meaning that the stack is growing towards lower addresses.

6. Choose a random number between 1 and 32, and allocate two chunks with that size.  
How much space is there between them?  Hint: Google knows how to subtract hexadecimal numbers.

    There seems to be 0x20 bytes (or 32 bytes in decimal) between them the two allocations. It also seems like regardless of what that random number between 1 and 32 is, the memory between the two chunks is constant.

### Stack allocated data

1.  Read `stack.c`, which should be in this directory.  What is it
intended to do?  What would the output be if the program worked as
expected?

    The function `int *foo()` is creating an array of size 5 and setting all elements within it to 42. The function `void bar()` is also making a similar sized array and setting its elements to its corresponding index. In the `int main()` function, it called `foo()` and `bar()` but ultimately prints the array `foo()` created.

2.  Compile it.  Do you get a warning?  What does it mean?

    The compilation error says that the function is returning address of a local variable. It means that once the function is done executing, the local variable will be popped out of the stack. The compiler is warning that the pointer returned is pointing to something that will be destroyed soon.

3.  Run it.  What happens?  You might get a segmentation fault, or you might get
some strange output.  Can you explain it?  You might find it
helpful to draw a stack diagram.

    The segmentation fault occurs because `foo()` is done executing and the array no longer exists on the stack. Hence, the pointer is now pointing to something else that is illegal to read from, leading to a segmentation fault.

4.  Comment out the `print` statements in `foo()` and `bar()` and run
it again.  What happens now?

    It first successfully prints the locations to the arrays in both `foo()` and `bar()` before segmentation faulting.

5.  Add comments to the code to explain these experiments and the results,
then check the code in to the repo.

Moral: Don't return pointers to stack allocated data!


### Adder

Create a file named `adder.c` and write a program that allows the user to enter integers, one per line, until the user hits Control-D, which is the end-of-file (EOF) character.

It should convert the numbers from input strings to integers and store the integers in an array.  The program should produce appropriate error messages if the user enters something that exceeds the length of the input buffer, or can't be converted to an integer.  It should also produce an error message if the user enters more numbers than will fit in the array.

After the user enters Control-D, the program should add up the numbers in the array and print the result.  

Your program should be divided into at least two functions with well designed interfaces.

Optionally, the program should produce an error if the sum exceeds the largest integer that can be represented.

Hint: You will probably want to use two functions we haven't seen yet:

* strlen: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_strlen.htm)

* atoi: [Read about it here](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/c_standard_library/c_function_atoi.htm)

Before you use there functions, you need to `#include <string.h>`.
